New Entry: General Font Awesome (#849)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/font-awesome/font-awesome.md

---
Title: 'Font Awesome'
Description: 'Font Awesome is a very popular icon toolkit for the web, based on CSS and Less.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'World Wide Web'

>   - 'Fonts'

Author: @Dusch4593, done

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Font Awesome** is a very popular icon toolkit for the web, based on [CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css) and [Less](https://lesscss.org/). It was developed by Dave Gandy in 2012 and is currently up to version 6. All versions through version 4 were free to use, while versions 5 & 6 have paid and free versions.

## Syntax

> Font Awesome is most easily used by including a line in the [`<head>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/head) element of the web page that allows the use of the Font Awesome icons and their CSS modifiers. The line to include will differ depending on what version you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Font Awesome is commonly used via [HTML](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html) by including a line in the [`<head>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/head) element of the web page. This allows the use of the Font Awesome icons and their CSS modifiers. The line to include will differ depending on the version being used.
```

For version 4, the line to include is:

> ```html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

> <link
>   rel="stylesheet"
>   href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css"
> />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<head>
  <link
    rel="stylesheet"
    href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css"
  />
</head>
```

```

> Using the free version of 6 requires a "Kit Code" that can be retrieved by [signing up for an account](https://fontawesome.com/start) at Font Awesome. With the "Kit Code" the line to include Font Awesome on a web page is this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The free part of version 6 requires a "Kit Code" that can be retrieved by [signing up for a Font Awesome account](https://fontawesome.com/start). The "Kit Code" can then be referenced in a [`<script>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/script) element:
```

```html
<script
  src="https://kit.fontawesome.com/kitcode.js"
  crossorigin="anonymous"

> ></script>

Author: @Dusch4593, That's not my understanding on how this works. You get a code provided by fontawesome.com.

```

## Using Font Awesome

> Utilizing the fonts and features of Font Awesome require applying different class attributes to HTML elements on the page. The icons themselves are designed to use inline elements and are typically displayed using an [`<i>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/i) element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilizing the fonts and features of Font Awesome require applying different [class](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/classes) names to HTML elements on the page. The icons themselves are designed to use inline elements and are displayed with an [`<i>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/i) element.
```

Version 4 would use the prefix `fa` followed by the icon name:

```html
<i class="fa fa-check-square"></i>
```

> 
> Results in:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I for this sort of output, I would omit any preceding text altogether.

> ![Example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/font-awesome-check.png)

Reviewer: For the alt text for these images, I suggest more descriptiveness. Maybe something like the following: 

```suggestion
![Output of Font Awesome check icon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/font-awesome-check.png)
```

This will be helpful for any readers who are using assistive tech such as screen readers.

> Version 6 uses `fas` followed by the icon name. The `s` stands for "solid". Some icons also have a "regular" version accessed by using `far` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 6 uses `fas` followed by the icon name. The `s` stands for "solid". Some icons also have a "regular" version accessed by using `far` instead:
```

```html
<i class="fas fa-file-code"></i> <i class="far fa-file-code"></i>
```

Results in:

![Example 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/font-awesome-code.png)

> There are several different values that can be added to the class attribute to modify the apperance of the Font Awesome icons. Several are listed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several different values that can be added to the `class` attribute to modify the appearance of the Font Awesome icons. Several are listed below:
```
